I do not see the colorful leaves that cover the trees lining the avenue. Rather, as I walk past Dad's childhood home, I see just the gray branches underneath, as if naked skeletons, without leaf or blossom.

Dad and his friends grew up on this block. Here they wrote skid marks on the sidewalks with their bikes, earned scuffed knees and bruises with their dares, and played joyous games across the lawns.

Their siblings were close too, and their entire families became close, weaving themselves together with school, sports, jobs, and hobbies.

Today, not one of the kids still lives in town.

The generation, with Dad and all his siblings, left as they grew up. According to the stories, they went away to explore colleges, careers, and universities, and it seems they chose the best wives, husbands, and jobs that the foreign lands could produce.

They transplanted their roots.

I have seen them come back here, to their original hometown, but only for moments. They have been gathered together like flashing but fading leaves in small cyclones by weddings, funerals, class reunions — things they enjoy or are still bigger than themselves.

After being briefly together, they again settle apart.

And so I wonder, as my feet brush through crumpled leaves and acorns plunk around me, about each of them, but especially Dad. What was he like at my age after leaving, shortly before he met Mom? Why didn't he — or any of the siblings — marry a childhood friend?

And I wonder: What did Grandma and Grandpa think about Mom when they met? Did Dad take her home for dinner? Did they meet her someplace else, in some other way?

And I wonder why, when Dad and his siblings were seemingly so close to their parents, did they choose to live so far apart and away? What light in distant stars called them from home's warm-fire hearth?

And by what circumstances and for what reasons did I come to be? The zig-zags of the lives preceding and surrounding me bear no great arcs, no prominent blossoms of spirit. I see only stretches of mundane, barren fields.

With aches that draw me, but no guide for where the good future truly lies, I come back to these scenes and paths, worn-in and forsaken by my ancestors.

I have learned that I may form my intentions and execute my plans; but it seems that if name and destiny and life are not bestowed together, then I am bound to remain abandoned, unknown, and cold to myself and all above and around me.


I pause.

The leaves rustle over the skeleton trees, and I listen for truth in the cold wind.


It is silent.
