# College

Running in the morning brought me joy; yet I was often anxious and worried before starting, for the early air was cool, and I was inexperienced with any practice of painful endurance.

The air was brisk, and the sunlight warm. I appreciated the greetings from other runners, and over time, learned what it felt like to pass a few of them; it was strange at first, having grown up believing myself to be innately weak.

Perhaps it was hubris, but I soon thought that some of the cute girls around campus starting giving me attention — at least some smiles — and this was affirming.

With a longer stride, a quicker pace, and my calves starting to swell against my rolled-up jeans at night, I was feeling new, strong, and finally worthy of being loved.

As the weather cooled, I changed my routine from running to weightlifting.

Saturday mornings were one of my regular workout sessions, and it was always quiet on campus before 9 a.m. Just like my runs, I felt a mix of fear and excitement before lifting, as I biked to the gym. In the late Minnesota October, the sun was never quite up to full day by the time I arrived.

At home, I began experiencing the fruits of my workouts. Heavier things became easier to lift and carry, and I was learning the names of muscles as mine grew and became defined. Triceps and deltoids were new to me, and I could see my lats for the first time. Pectorals I had noticed on others before, but now I too had a pair, instead of just pale skin molded to my ribs.

My confidence grew with my muscles, and no longer was I just a bundle of flesh awaiting affirmation — I had changed, and was now capable of changing the world around me.

My class work was only a mild challenge that semester, not as rigorous as my junior and senior years would be, and I was appreciating how balanced my life felt: while keeping up with academics, I was exercising, reading for leisure, eating better, and sleeping deeply and waking up bright-eyed.

This was greatly due to my experience the preceding summer working a factory job, where I scraped insulation and glued gaskets on the assembly line for industrial air conditioners. The work was memorable because it was so monotonous and repetitive: it just burrowed its way into my body and stuck there.

I was on the night shift: ten-hour days that ended at 3:00 a.m., four days a week — or five, if we had overtime.

Being hired as temporary summer help, I rotated between all the low-skill stations, which meant I spent about five minutes learning a job, and then another 595 doing it every night for two weeks. My mind started to feel like just a superfluous accessory.

The job was tough because the tasks were simple, unpleasant, and unrewarding. Ironically, the factory itself was not air-conditioned, and so we sweat easily in the hot summer nights.

I quickly saw how the work crushed other's souls, and I dreaded that the same would happen to me. It wasn't my first time seeing people act like they were dead, but I had never before been close enough to learn their names or be considered a part of their group.

There was a variety to my coworkers, though — some were good, some were shallow, and many I never knew, or only at a distance.

Chuck was one I noticed right away, and could never forget. He always had a the-world-is-crazy-but-I-know-it smile at the ready, and he gave serious answers to even the most trivial questions, often ironically. He probably had many tattoos, but I remember just two of them, on opposite shoulders: “Christopher”, in a fine black cursive script, and “Skippy”, sloppily etched with rough lines in a jailhouse-blue ink.

Working alongside me was Missy, a grandmother and smart and caring woman. She worked hard, had no pretense, and held no illusions about the difficulties in life, which she knew came to all, and therefore did not run from. She like to have fun, though she didn't laugh much, and she was never negative or morose. Generally she was serious, and always earnest.

Cathy was her opposite, but of the same age and station in life. Though I had many short talks with her (really just exchanges), I never got to know her. It was immediately clear that she was deeply afraid, insecure, and sad, because she always stroke to hide her vulnerability below a slew of childish cliché phrases in a sing-song voice. Her smile was unnaturally large, permanent, and boring.

And then there was Ross. He had been at the factory for a few years, and had one of the few jobs in our department that seemed to require even a little intellect, working with some kind of CNC machine to stamp out specialized panels. Though technically young, he looked like he was turning into the shrink-wrapped microwavable“food that he bought from the vending machine on our breaks, and his face seemed like it had been pinched and sucked in by the tiny screen and earbuds of his cellphone. He spent every lunch break hunched over his device, peeking at its screen and his meal, giving only one or two-word monotone answers the half-dozen questions I ever bothered to ask of him. After weeks of being around him, I still felt that there wasn't anything more to him than what I saw in our first ten seconds together.

I became depressed soon after starting the job. I distinctly remember, after my first night of work, sitting on my bed and counting the number of shifts remaining for me to endure that summer. I counted about sixty, and I was crushed.

• • •

Relief came unexpectedly from a downturn in business, and they gave all summer workers notice that yesterday had been our last day. Suddenly I had all my evenings open again, more time for my hometown friends, and what I eventually came to realize was a major accomplishment behind me.

I didn't know it yet, but as I entered my sophomore year of college, I had a treasure house of discipline and latent gratitude stored up from the sacrifices I made for the job, and I was on my way to fundamentally changing for the better.
