It was a late night on Fox River for the five of us. I had been leading, steering from the back of the front canoe, and my muscles were warm; I looked forward to the fatigue I would soon feel, an expected prelude to deep sleep.

Jim was behind the two of us in the single-person canoe. Regularly he was calling out as a loon, a sound wonderful and familiar to our ears, and completely new here.

Karen was in the third canoe, also steering. We had been dating seriously for the last month, having known each other in this group for almost twelve.

The cove we were plotting for came up suddenly. Our current was strong, and Mark and I worked hard to get outside of it, and turned. Karen and her friend had a joke with our struggle, and cut us off at the entrance, laughing girlishly and softly as glided past, bright-eyed. Some drops of the river made a cast from the tip of Karen's paddle to my cheeks.

...

We started the fire before the tents were finished being set up, and I found two logs for crude benches. Karen locked eyes with me mischievously from her camp chair, relaxed, her cheeks painted red from either the fire of flushing blood. Her smile was wide and sealed.

Mark and Margaret started unpacking food. "Get busy," Mark called, and Karen caught the steaks with surprise against her chest, eyes widening for a moment before touching back on mine. Then she was lost to the business of unwrapping and pulling out cookware.

I stood up and started toward Jim, who was facing the lake of untouched waters, and my stomach was suddenly hollow. He pulled his pockets out as I approached, and spoke when he knew I was close enough. "I don't fear it anymore, Tom, but I understand it even less than I used to."
"I thought you said you didn't understand it at all."
"Maybe I'm starting to realize that," he said, turning toward me and looking down. There was a whoosh and a flash of light from behind, and we both turned quickly to find Karen looking bashful and slightly shocked, but smiling, and Mark laughing heartily. His hand was white with flour dust.

I turned slowly back to the stillness that lay before Jim and I: the full trees green-gold in the sun over the opposite bank, the water dark and pink and bright blue, and the painter's streaks of underlit clouds over it all.

That was how the night ended. Everything that followed was a deepening of that terminal moment, when all questions were settled, though their answers were still in the air.
