# Running

He was always running ten miles. “Wheel of Fortune” would be playing for fifteen minutes, and then he'd be off that beat-up couch and stomping his feet in the closet, hustling to get them into a pair of shoes and his body in a jacket before the clock ticked any farther.

I ran with him once, back in July, under the bare sun along the river. I wasn't in great shape, and I was surprised that I could barely hear my locomotive breaths over the flopping of his shoes, his loose soles smacking the pavement like dying white fish with every stroke.

The day after he died, I went back to the trail.

There were stains on the pavement, and flowers blossoming in the grass. Someone had set up a picture and his name against a road sign.

The switchback above wasn't roped off, but the police were still there, on and off, interviewing the passing runners, bikers, and hikers, hoping that someone had seen or heard anything that would piece a story together.

The sun was almost setting, just past the last phase of what one would truly call daylight, and I was anxious, without being able to name why. Dylan's parents made it to the apartment the night before, and mostly just stood around and looked, seeing for the first time where their son was living that year. Being from California, they seldom visited.

My other roommate and I gathered Dylan's possessions from the common areas together for them: shoes, jackets, his toothbrush, and other such things. They said we should keep his dishes and furniture.

The day he died, just shortly after in the late afternoon, I was waking up from a deep nap on his old couch. I opened my eyes to our roommate standing at my feet, straight-backed and stone-faced. Our windows were open and I could smell the autumn air, though there was almost no breeze, and the trees behind Tommy were a fiery and glorious red. He looked at me without emotion, said in one word, “Dylan'sDead,” and then marched into the bathroom and slammed the door. Immediately, I could hear him retching.
