Running in the mornings brought me joy, yet I often anticipated the start of this with fear and worry, for the early air was cool, and I inexperienced with any practice of painful endurance.

The air was brisk to run through, and the sunlight warm. I enjoyed the smiling faces of other runners, and learned over time what it felt like to pass a few of them. It was strange, initially, to demonstrate a greater athletic ability than others, after growing up believing myself to be innately weak.

Perhaps I was looking for it in hubris, but I thought I started getting some attention from pretty girls around campus — at least some smiles — and this was affirming. With a longer stride and quicker pace, and my calves starting to swell against my rolled-up jeans at night, I felt like I was taking in, transforming, and giving back life itself. I started feeling worthy of love as I became stronger.

Soon that fall my routine changed from running to weightlifting.

Saturday mornings, before 9 a.m., were quiet on campus, and I was typically feeling a mix of excitement and fear as I biked to the gym. I started my routine in the fall, and so in all my memories the sun is not yet fully risen to the point where day has arrived in its fullness.

I see the sky as brightly blue, and I can feel my water bottle, warm, against my back.

By my recollection, I read one good book that semester; all else fell short.

Andrew Dubus III became a sort of hero for me, or a legend of human experience that I looked up to. It seemed that he experienced life, that he moved through it with meaning, and that he was, overall, growing more into his fullness throughout the memoir.

I realized there were types of experiences yet unknown to me, and channels of life only briefly waded in, untouched, or utterly unseen. I understood that I could grow into these channels, though, and start to drink them in.

Just that fall I was experience, for the first time, the fruits of sustained, prudent sacrifice as I gave time and sweat to work in the gym and kitchen becoming bigger.

I was learning the names of muscles, and what it felt like to exercise them, and what they looked lie, as mine grew to be visible and distinct in the mirror. Triceps were new to me, and so were my lats. Pectorals I had noticed on others before, but now I had a pair for myself, instead of just pale skin molded to my ribs.

With a shirt on I noticed a difference in my appearance, and so did others. Over the few months of that autumn and early winter I grew to be comfortable and assured with my physical self, and felt much more stability in relating with others. I was no longer a bundle of flesh awaiting affirmation.

...

Classwork was only mildly challenging that fall semester, and I was appreciating how much more balanced my life felt; while keeping up with my academic responsibilities I was exercising, reading for leisure, and getting enough food and sleep. I recall waking up with a feeling of deep satisfaction and [ ? ]

The summer before I had worked hard at my job, which an extended relative helped me obtain. I worked on a factory floor, doing the most basic work for air conditioner assembly: lifting panels, scraping insulation off of them, and glueing gaskets to their doors.

We worked from 4:30 in the evening until 3:00 in the morning. We would often wait by the lockers at the edge of the floor just before our shift started, and when the closing bell rang we were lined up at the time-clock by the front door with our plastic badges in hand, ready to swipe our shift to an official end.

The nights were long, and the daylight hours before could be filled with dread, for I found little meaning or worth to the monotonous work, and some of the people there lived as if defeated by death, and I couldn't comprehend how I would not end up in the same state, since my life was solely dependent on exterior circumstances.

Ed worked a station next to mine, one that required a little knowledge, and perhaps even some creativity. He worked at a computer, alone, and with the metal panels, doing what I, nearly a decade later, cannot recall.

I remember him spending our thirty-minute "lunch" break — at 10:30 p.m. — seated at the end of the room, hunched over his meal and phone, zoned-in with his headphones to something on the tiny screen. We talked seldomly, and his speech was dry, without joy.
