# Ten Miles

He was always running ten miles. “Wheel of Fortune” would be playing for fifteen minutes, and then he'd be off that beat-up couch and stomping his feet in the closet, hustling to get them into a pair of shoes and his body in a jacket before the clock ticked any farther.

I ran with him once, back in July, under the bare sun along the river. I wasn't in great shape, and I was surprised that I could barely hear my locomotive breaths over the flopping of his shoes, his loose soles smacking the pavement like dying white fish with every stroke.

The day after he died, I went back to the trail.

There were stains on the pavement, and flowers blossoming in the grass. Someone had set up a picture and his name against a road sign.

The switchback above wasn't roped off, but the police were still there, on and off, interviewing the passing runners, bikers, and hikers, hoping that someone had seen or heard anything that would piece a story together.

The sun was almost setting, just past the last phase of what one would truly call daylight, and I was anxious, without being able to name why. Dylan's parents had come to the apartment the night before, flying in from California immediately after hearing from the police. They mostly just stood around and looked, seeing for the first time where their son was living that year. Being so far away, they had seldom visited.

My other roommate and I gathered Dylan's possessions from the common areas together for them: shoes, jackets, his toothbrush, and other such things. They said we should keep his dishes and furniture.

I think often about the day he died. Late that afternoon, I woke up from a deep nap on his old couch. I opened my eyes to our roommate standing at my feet, straight-backed and stone-faced. Our windows were open and I could smell the autumn air, though there was almost no breeze. The trees behind Tommy were a fiery and glorious red, and he looked at me without emotion and said in one word, “Dylan'sDead.” Then he marched into the bathroom, slammed the door, and began retching.

We didn't speak to each other much for the next week, at least not around the apartment. Things weren't tense, but the air just felt strange. He spent more time staring out the window than before, and I spent more time with old video games, going back to originals from my childhood.

I don't know if Dylan remembered it, but he and I met years before we ever became friends in college, when we were both still kids. I didn't remember it myself until a week or so before his death, and never got around to asking him about it. Our elementary, among hundreds of others, were both in Chicago on extracurricular summer field trips, celebrating the inauguration of some massive new museums and exhibits on one of our nation's anniversaries. My friends and I were having lunch in a spacious white hall, our teacher and chaperones sitting with us and shepherding us through the line and to our tables.

On my way to my seat, another kid with a goofy smile and a shock of sun-blond hair walked past me with his tray, bouncing through his steps. With a natural ease he walked up to and hopped on the low bench at one of our tables and started walking over it. He reached the end of our class, where I was going to sit, and plopped himself down and quickly stuck the straw into his juice box. He was grinning like a merry thief at the rest of us, who had no idea who he was. It was like he was immediately at home among us, a happy stranger in a new land. Instantly, we were all his friends.

Eventually his frantic teacher found him, exclaiming, “Dylan! Where have you been?” and nearly pulled him right off the bench. His smile and laughter only grew brighter as he let himself be led by the hands on his shoulder back to his own classmates, and he tossed his unopened box of Animal Crackers to my friend sitting across from him. He seemed to almost be floating on his toes as he skipped away, bouncing like a rubber ball. It was this cheery gait that I recognized years later, and finally triggered the memory for me.
